Let's say you want to calculate the total
amount of sightings for this type of frog
Begin your formula with an equal sign and
type the function name
The function we want to be using is sum f
or addition.  Start with equal sum,
then select the cells or type their
references inside the parentheses. Finish
by closing the parentheses.
Once your formula is complete, press
enter and here you go
Let's now look as a more complicated
formulaIf you want to count the number of
occurrences this frog species was
recorded at a high confidence level, you
can use the Count IF function.
Click on the cell where you want the
result to appear
Type in Equals COUNTIF to start your
formula
Then select the range that contains the
species names, column A
Type a comma and then in quotation marks
specify the species name you are
interested in
As you can see, Excel will provide a hint
beneath the formula, guiding you through
the correct writing format
To continue, type another comma to add the
2nd criteria range, which would be the
confidence level column B in the
spreadsheet
Type the final comma and in quotation
marks put the desired confidence level '
high'
Drag the corner of the cell downward to
replicate the formula. Then adjust the
confidence level within the quotes to '
Medium' or 'Low' to
obtain respective counts